documentation/md/content_search.md, before:

Content
=======

## Endpoint URL
* `http://content.guardianapis.com/search`


## Example response

    {
    "response": {
    "status": "ok",
    "userTier": "free",
    "total": 1,
    "startIndex": 1,
    "pageSize": 10,
    "currentPage": 1,
    "pages": 1,
    "orderBy": "newest",
    "results": [
        {
        "id": "politics/blog/2014/feb/17/alex-salmond-speech-first-minister-scottish-independence-eu-currency-live",
        "sectionId": "politics",
        "sectionName": "Politics",
        "webPublicationDate": "2014-02-17T12:05:47Z",
        "webTitle": "Alex Salmond speech – first minister hits back over Scottish independence – live",
        "webUrl": "http://www.theguardian.com/politics/blog/2014/feb/17/alex-salmond-speech-first-minister-scottish-independence-eu-currency-live",
        "apiUrl": "http://content.guardianapis.com/politics/blog/2014/feb/17/alex-salmond-speech-first-minister-scottish-independence-eu-currency-live"
        }
    ]}
    }


Field  | Description | Type |  |
------ | ----------- | ---- |--|
`status` | The status of the response. It refers to the state of the API. Successful calls will receive an "ok" even if your query did not return any results |  *String*
`total` |  The number of results available for your search overall | *Integer*
`pageSize` | The number of items returned in this call |  *Integer*
`currentPage` | The number of the page you are browsing | *Integer*
`pages` | The total amount of pages that are in this call | *Integer*
`orderBy` | The sort order used | *String*
`id` | The path to content | *String*
`sectionId` | The id of the section |  *String*
`sectionName` | The name of the section |  *String*
`webPublicationDate` |  The combined date and time of publication | *Datetime*
`webUrl` | The URL of the html content | *String*
`apiUrl` | The URL of the raw content | *String*


## Parameters

### Query term

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`q` | Request content containing this free text. Supports AND, OR and NOT operators, and exact phrase queries using double quotes. | *String* | e.g. `sausages`, `"pork sausages"`, `sausages AND (mash OR chips)`, `sausages AND NOT (saveloy OR battered)`

### Filters

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values | Boolean operators
----- | ----------- | ---- | --------------- | ------------------
`section` | Return only content in those sections | *String* | e.g. football | true
`reference` | Return only content with those references | *String* | e.g. isbn/9780718178949 | true
`reference-type` | Return only content with references of those types | *String* | e.g. isbn | true
`tag` | Return only content with those tags | *String* | e.g. technology/apple | true
`rights` | Return only content with those rights | *String* | syndicatable \| subscription-databases | false
`ids` | Return only content with those IDs | *String* | e.g. technology/2014/feb/17/flappy-bird-clones-apple-google | false
`production-office` | Return only content from those production offices | *String* | e.g. aus | true
`lang` | Return only content in those languages | *String* | ISO language codes, e.g. en, fr | true

#### Date options

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`from-date` | Return only content published on or after that date | *Date* | e.g.  2014-02-16
`to-date` | Return only content published on or before that date | *Date* | e.g.  2014-02-17

#### Page options

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | -----| ---------------
`page` | Return only the result set from a particular page | *Integer* | e.g. 5
`page-size` | Modify the number of items displayed per page | *Integer* | 1 to 50

### Ordering


Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
 `order-by` | Returns results in the specified order | *String* | See list below

* `newest` - __Default__ in all other cases
* `oldest`
* `relevance` - __Default__ where `q` parameter is specified

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`use-date` | Changes which type of date is used to order the results | *String* | See list below

* `published` - The date the content appeared on the web - __Default__
* `newspaper-edition` - The date the content appeared in print
* `last-modified` - The date the content was last updated

### Additional information

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-fields` | Add fields associated with the content | *String list* | See table below

Field  | Description | Type |  |
------ | ----------- | ---- |--|
`trailText` |  | *String (HTML)*
`headline` |  |  *String (HTML)*
`showInRelatedContent` | Whether this content can appear in automatically generated Related Content | *String (boolean)*
`body` |  |  *String (HTML)*
`lastModified`  |  |  *Datetime*
`hasStoryPackage` | Has related content selected by editors | *String (boolean)*
`score` | A relevance score based on the search query used | *String (float)*
`standfirst` |  | *String (HTML)*
`shortUrl`  |  | *String*
`thumbnail` |  | *String*
`wordcount`  |  |  *String (Integer)*
`commentable`  |  | *String (Boolean)*
`isPremoderated` | Comments will be checked by a moderator prior to publication if `true` | *String (Boolean)*
`allowUgc` | May have associated User Generated Content. This typically means the content has an associated [Guardian Witness](http://witness.theguardian.com/) assignment which can be accessed by querying `show-references=witness-assignment` | *String (Boolean)*
`byline` |  | *String (HTML)*
`publication` |  | *String*
`internalPageCode` |  | *String*
`productionOffice` |  | *String*
`shouldHideAdverts` | Adverts will not be displayed if `true` | *String (Boolean)*
`liveBloggingNow` | Content is currently live blogged if `true` | *String (Boolean)*
`commentCloseDate` | The date the comments have been closed | Datetime
`starRating` |  | *String (Integer)*
`all` | Includes all the fields |

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-tags` | Add associated metadata tags | *String list* | See list below

* `blog`
* `contributor`
* `keyword`
* `newspaper-book`
* `newspaper-book-section`
* `publication`
* `series`
* `tone`
* `type`
* `all`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-blocks` | Add associated blocks (single block for content, one or more for liveblogs) | *String list* | See list below

* `main`
* `body`
* `all`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-elements` | Add associated media elements such as images and audio | *String list* | See list below

* `audio`
* `image`
* `video`
* `all`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-references` | Add associated reference data such as ISBNs | *String list* | See list below

* author
* bisac-prefix
* esa-cricket-match
* esa-football-match
* esa-football-team
* esa-football-tournament
* isbn
* musicbrainz
* musicbrainzgenre
* opta-cricket-match
* opta-football-match
* opta-football-team
* opta-football-tournament
* pa-football-competition
* pa-football-match
* pa-football-team
* r1-film
* reuters-index-ric
* reuters-stock-ric
* witness-assignment - See `allowUgc`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-rights` | Add associated rights | *String list* | See list below

* `syndicatable`
* `subscription-databases`
* `all`

## Example query
[http://content.guardianapis.com/search?q=12%20years%20a%20slave&format=json&tag=film/film,tone/reviews&from-date=2010-01-01&show-tags=contributor&show-fields=starRating,headline,thumbnail,short-url&show-refinements=all&order-by=relevance](http://content.guardianapis.com/search?q=12%20years%20a%20slave&format=json&tag=film/film,tone/reviews&from-date=2010-01-01&show-tags=contributor&show-fields=starRating,headline,thumbnail,short-url&order-by=relevance&api-key=test)

Commit message:

Document filter by star-rating

documentation/md/content_search.md, after:

Content
=======

## Endpoint URL
* `http://content.guardianapis.com/search`


## Example response

    {
    "response": {
    "status": "ok",
    "userTier": "free",
    "total": 1,
    "startIndex": 1,
    "pageSize": 10,
    "currentPage": 1,
    "pages": 1,
    "orderBy": "newest",
    "results": [
        {
        "id": "politics/blog/2014/feb/17/alex-salmond-speech-first-minister-scottish-independence-eu-currency-live",
        "sectionId": "politics",
        "sectionName": "Politics",
        "webPublicationDate": "2014-02-17T12:05:47Z",
        "webTitle": "Alex Salmond speech – first minister hits back over Scottish independence – live",
        "webUrl": "http://www.theguardian.com/politics/blog/2014/feb/17/alex-salmond-speech-first-minister-scottish-independence-eu-currency-live",
        "apiUrl": "http://content.guardianapis.com/politics/blog/2014/feb/17/alex-salmond-speech-first-minister-scottish-independence-eu-currency-live"
        }
    ]}
    }


Field  | Description | Type |  |
------ | ----------- | ---- |--|
`status` | The status of the response. It refers to the state of the API. Successful calls will receive an "ok" even if your query did not return any results |  *String*
`total` |  The number of results available for your search overall | *Integer*
`pageSize` | The number of items returned in this call |  *Integer*
`currentPage` | The number of the page you are browsing | *Integer*
`pages` | The total amount of pages that are in this call | *Integer*
`orderBy` | The sort order used | *String*
`id` | The path to content | *String*
`sectionId` | The id of the section |  *String*
`sectionName` | The name of the section |  *String*
`webPublicationDate` |  The combined date and time of publication | *Datetime*
`webUrl` | The URL of the html content | *String*
`apiUrl` | The URL of the raw content | *String*


## Parameters

### Query term

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`q` | Request content containing this free text. Supports AND, OR and NOT operators, and exact phrase queries using double quotes. | *String* | e.g. `sausages`, `"pork sausages"`, `sausages AND (mash OR chips)`, `sausages AND NOT (saveloy OR battered)`

### Filters

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values | Boolean operators
----- | ----------- | ---- | --------------- | ------------------
`section` | Return only content in those sections | *String* | e.g. football | true
`reference` | Return only content with those references | *String* | e.g. isbn/9780718178949 | true
`reference-type` | Return only content with references of those types | *String* | e.g. isbn | true
`tag` | Return only content with those tags | *String* | e.g. technology/apple | true
`rights` | Return only content with those rights | *String* | syndicatable \| subscription-databases | false
`ids` | Return only content with those IDs | *String* | e.g. technology/2014/feb/17/flappy-bird-clones-apple-google | false
`production-office` | Return only content from those production offices | *String* | e.g. aus | true
`lang` | Return only content in those languages | *String* | ISO language codes, e.g. en, fr | true
`star-rating` | Return only content with a given star rating | *Integer* | 1 to 5 | false

#### Date options

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`from-date` | Return only content published on or after that date | *Date* | e.g.  2014-02-16
`to-date` | Return only content published on or before that date | *Date* | e.g.  2014-02-17

#### Page options

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | -----| ---------------
`page` | Return only the result set from a particular page | *Integer* | e.g. 5
`page-size` | Modify the number of items displayed per page | *Integer* | 1 to 50

### Ordering


Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
 `order-by` | Returns results in the specified order | *String* | See list below

* `newest` - __Default__ in all other cases
* `oldest`
* `relevance` - __Default__ where `q` parameter is specified

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`use-date` | Changes which type of date is used to order the results | *String* | See list below

* `published` - The date the content appeared on the web - __Default__
* `newspaper-edition` - The date the content appeared in print
* `last-modified` - The date the content was last updated

### Additional information

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-fields` | Add fields associated with the content | *String list* | See table below

Field  | Description | Type |  |
------ | ----------- | ---- |--|
`trailText` |  | *String (HTML)*
`headline` |  |  *String (HTML)*
`showInRelatedContent` | Whether this content can appear in automatically generated Related Content | *String (boolean)*
`body` |  |  *String (HTML)*
`lastModified`  |  |  *Datetime*
`hasStoryPackage` | Has related content selected by editors | *String (boolean)*
`score` | A relevance score based on the search query used | *String (float)*
`standfirst` |  | *String (HTML)*
`shortUrl`  |  | *String*
`thumbnail` |  | *String*
`wordcount`  |  |  *String (Integer)*
`commentable`  |  | *String (Boolean)*
`isPremoderated` | Comments will be checked by a moderator prior to publication if `true` | *String (Boolean)*
`allowUgc` | May have associated User Generated Content. This typically means the content has an associated [Guardian Witness](http://witness.theguardian.com/) assignment which can be accessed by querying `show-references=witness-assignment` | *String (Boolean)*
`byline` |  | *String (HTML)*
`publication` |  | *String*
`internalPageCode` |  | *String*
`productionOffice` |  | *String*
`shouldHideAdverts` | Adverts will not be displayed if `true` | *String (Boolean)*
`liveBloggingNow` | Content is currently live blogged if `true` | *String (Boolean)*
`commentCloseDate` | The date the comments have been closed | Datetime
`starRating` |  | *String (Integer)*
`all` | Includes all the fields |

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-tags` | Add associated metadata tags | *String list* | See list below

* `blog`
* `contributor`
* `keyword`
* `newspaper-book`
* `newspaper-book-section`
* `publication`
* `series`
* `tone`
* `type`
* `all`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-blocks` | Add associated blocks (single block for content, one or more for liveblogs) | *String list* | See list below

* `main`
* `body`
* `all`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-elements` | Add associated media elements such as images and audio | *String list* | See list below

* `audio`
* `image`
* `video`
* `all`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-references` | Add associated reference data such as ISBNs | *String list* | See list below

* author
* bisac-prefix
* esa-cricket-match
* esa-football-match
* esa-football-team
* esa-football-tournament
* isbn
* musicbrainz
* musicbrainzgenre
* opta-cricket-match
* opta-football-match
* opta-football-team
* opta-football-tournament
* pa-football-competition
* pa-football-match
* pa-football-team
* r1-film
* reuters-index-ric
* reuters-stock-ric
* witness-assignment - See `allowUgc`

Name  | Description | Type | Accepted values
----- | ----------- | ---- | ---------------
`show-rights` | Add associated rights | *String list* | See list below

* `syndicatable`
* `subscription-databases`
* `all`

## Example query
[http://content.guardianapis.com/search?q=12%20years%20a%20slave&format=json&tag=film/film,tone/reviews&from-date=2010-01-01&show-tags=contributor&show-fields=starRating,headline,thumbnail,short-url&show-refinements=all&order-by=relevance](http://content.guardianapis.com/search?q=12%20years%20a%20slave&format=json&tag=film/film,tone/reviews&from-date=2010-01-01&show-tags=contributor&show-fields=starRating,headline,thumbnail,short-url&order-by=relevance&api-key=test)
